## Reporting tool

 v 1.0
-   
A Spring boot application providing an REST API to generate Reservation report.  
Following are few strategies used in the application. 
- In-memory H2 database for local development. This application is currently developed for local development only.
- Querydsl API for data persistence and querying. I've chosen this library to provide type safety and to provision for build queries with dynamic order by expressions.
- The DAO layer is build on top of the EntityManager. The querying of database is build using JPAQueryFactory.
- CommandLineRunner to load the sample data from reservations.json to in-memory database
- Custom validator for validating input request date range and date bound
- Exception handling for invalid sort strategy provided.
- Custom ErrorResponse for any exception in application


### Software required

- JDK version 17
- Maven 3.8.4


### Steps before we can run the application

Since the application uses QueryDsl it requires autogenerated Q-types.  
These Q-types will provide the wrapper to build fluent query API.  
The maven plugin for generating those beans is provided in the pom.xml.
To generate the Q-types run the following command in terminal

```bash
mvn compile
```

### Testing the application using test cases
- At the root of the application you can use the mvn command to execute the test

```bash
mvn -Dtest=CrudServiceTest test
mvn -Dtest=ReportControllerTest test
mvn -Dtest=ReportServiceTest test
```

- Or for all tests

```bash
mvn test
```
  

### Running the application in local

```bash
mvn spring-boot:run
```
You could use curl or Postman to test the application  

http://localhost:8080/reports/visits

Sample input body for the request

```json
{
  "dateRange": {
    "start": "2000-11-20",
    "end": "2022-11-20"
  },
  "sortExpressions": [
    {
      "fieldName": "guestName",
      "sortOrder": "desc"
    }
  ]
}
```